# Percona Server for MongoDB 5.0.3-2 (Release Candidate) (2021-10-14)

| **Release date** | October 14, 2021 |
|----------------- | ---------------- | 
| **Installation** | [Installing Percona Server for MongoDB](../install/index.md)|


Percona Server for MongoDB 5.0.3-2 is an enhanced, source-available, and highly-scalable database that is a
fully-compatible, drop-in replacement for MongoDB 5.0.3 Community Edition.
It supports MongoDB 5.0.3 protocols and drivers.

!!! note 

    Due to many core changes to WiredTiger and the core server introduced to  facilitate new features such as resharding, time series collections, and API versioning, MongoDB 5.0.x is still unstable. We do not recommend using this release candidate for production environments.

!!! warning 
    
    Beginning with MongoDB 5.0.1, several data impacting or corrupting bugs were introduced. Details are listed below.

    These bugs are fixed in MongoDB 5.0.3. Percona Server for MongoDB 5.0.3-2 includes the upstream fixes of these bugs.

    Unless you are already running a version of MongoDB 5.0.x in your production environments, consider waiting a while longer for any other issues to be worked through.

    If you are running any version of MongoDB 5.0.x already, please upgrade to MongoDB 5.0.3 or Percona Server for MongoDB 5.0.3-2 as soon as possible. Please follow closely all MongoDB Inc upstream recommendations regarding avoiding unclean shutdowns, check collections with the [validate](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/validate/) command (watch for performance impacts), and make sure and resync any impacted nodes from unaffected nodes as recommended in [WT-7995](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/WT-7995).

    Another critical issue that affects the production use of this version is [SERVER-68511](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-68511). It causes inconsistency in sharding metadata when running the `movePrimary` command on the database that has the Feature Compatibility Version (FCV) set to 4.4 or earlier. Affects MongoDB versions 5.0.0 through 5.0.10 and MongoDB 6.0.0. Upgrade to the fixed version of MongoDB 5.0.11 / Percona Server for MongoDB 5.0.11-10 as soon as possible.

    Follow the upstream recommendations in [SERVER-68511](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-68511) to check your clusters and remediate any negative impact if the clusters are affected with this issue.

## Release Highlights

The bug fixes, provided by MongoDB and included in Percona Server for MongoDB, are the following:


* [WT-7995](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/WT-7995) - Checkpoint thread can read and persist inconsistent version of data to disk. Can cause Duplicate Key error on startup and prevent the node from starting. Unclean shutdowns can cause data inconsistency within documents, deleted documents to still exist, incomplete query results due to lost or inaccurate index entries, and/or missing documents. Affects MongoDB versions 5.0.0 through 5.0.2. Upgrade to fixed version of MongoDB 5.0.3 / Percona Server for MongoDB 5.0.3-2 as soon as possible.


* [WT-7984](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/WT-7984) - Bug that could cause Checkpoint thread to omit a page of data. If the server experiences an unclean shutdown, an inconsistent checkpoint is used for recovery and causes data corruption. Fixed in version 5.0.3.

Requires the [validate](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/validate/)  command to be run and possible data remediation via complete initial sync.

Find the full list of changes in the [MongoDB 5.0.3 Community Edition release notes](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/5.0/#5.0.3---sep-21--2021).

## Improvements


* [PSMDB-918](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PSMDB-918): Disable the deletion of the `mongod` user in RPM packages - This preserves the permissions to the MongoDB data directory for the `mongod` user since its user ID and group ID remain unchanged.
