# Percona Server for MongoDB 5.0.4-3 (Release Candidate) (2021-12-08)

| **Release date** | December 8, 2021 |
|----------------- | ---------------- | 
| **Installation** | [Installing Percona Server for MongoDB](../install/index.md)|

Percona Server for MongoDB 5.0.4-3 is an enhanced, source-available, and highly-scalable database that is a
fully-compatible, drop-in replacement for MongoDB 5.0.4 Community Edition.

It is rebased on [MongoDB 5.0.4 Community Edition](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/andsupportsMongoDB5.0.4protocolsanddrivers) and supports MongoDB 5.0.4 protocols and drivers.

!!! note 

    Due to many core changes to WiredTiger and the core server introduced to  facilitate new features such as resharding, time series collections, and API versioning, MongoDB 5.0.x is still unstable. We do not recommend using this release candidate for production environments.

!!! warning 

    We don’t recommend this version for the production use due to the critical issue with sharding metadata inconsistency: [SERVER-68511](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-68511). The metadata inconsistency is observed when running the `movePrimary` command on the database that has the Feature Compatibility Version (FCV) set to 4.4 or earlier. Affects MongoDB versions 5.0.0 through 5.0.10 and MongoDB 6.0.0. Upgrade to the fixed version of MongoDB 5.0.11 / Percona Server for MongoDB 5.0.11-10 as soon as possible.

    Please follow closely the upstream recommendations outlined in [SERVER-68511](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-68511) to work around this issue and for the remediation steps, if your cluster is affected.

## Release Highlights

The bug fixes, provided by MongoDB and included in Percona Server for MongoDB, are the following:


* Fixed delays in establishing egress connections on `mongos` due to delayed responses from `libcrypto.so`


* Allowed replication state changes to interrupt lock acquisition. This interruption fixes deadlocks that may occur when a primary node steps down with profiling enabled.

Find the full list of changes in the [MongoDB 5.0.4 Community Edition release notes](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/5.0/#5.0.4---nov-15--2021).
