.. _3.2.10-3.0:

=====================================
Percona Server for MongoDB 3.2.10-3.0
=====================================

Percona is glad to announce the release of
Percona Server for MongoDB 3.2.10-3.0 on October 27, 2016.
Downloads are available
`here <https://www.percona.com/downloads/percona-server-mongodb-3.2>`_
and from the :ref:`Percona Software Repositories <install>`.

Percona Server for MongoDB is a highly scalable,
zero-maintenance downtime database
supporting the MongoDB v3.2 protocol and drivers.
It extends MongoDB with MongoRocks_,
:ref:`inmemory`, and :ref:`PerconaFT <perconaft>` storage engines,
as well as several enterprise features.
Percona Server for MongoDB requires no changes to MongoDB applications or code.

.. note:: The PerconaFT storage engine has been deprecated
   and will not be available in future releases.

This release is based on `MongoDB 3.2.10
<http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/release-notes/3.2/#sep-30-2016>`_
and includes the following additional new features and improvements.

New Features
============

**Universal Hot Backup**

  This release introduces an integrated hot backup
  for the default WiredTiger_ and alternative MongoRocks_ engine.
  It creates a physical data backup on a running server
  without performance degradation.

  For more information, see :ref:`hot-backup`.

**Profiling Rate Limit**

  Rate limiting enables to seed logged queries
  and thus decrease the impact of profiling on database performance.

  For more information, see :ref:`rate-limit`.

**Percona Knobs**

  This release includes several additional configuration file variables
  with corresponding command-line options.

  For more information, see :ref:`knobs`.

Bug Fixes
=========

* Fixed crash when running out of WiredTiger cache under :ref:`inmemory`.

