.. _3.4.19-2.17:

================================================================================
|PSMDB| |release|
================================================================================

:Date: |date|
:Download: http://www.percona.com/downloads/percona-server-mongodb-3.4/
:Installation: :ref:`install`

Percona announces the release of Percona Server for MongoDB |release| on
|date|. Download the latest version from the Percona web site or the
Percona Software Repositories.

Percona Server for MongoDB 3.4 is an enhanced, open source, and highly-scalable
database that is a fully-compatible, drop-in replacement for MongoDB 3.4
Community Edition. It supports MongoDB 3.4 protocols and drivers.

|PSMDB| extends MongoDB Community Edition functionality by including
the Percona Memory Engine and MongoRocks storage engines, as well as
several enterprise-grade features:

- `External Authentication <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server-for-mongodb/3.4/authentication.html>`_
- `Audit Logging <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server-for-mongodb/3.4/audit-logging.html>`_
- `Profiling Rate Limiting <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server-for-mongodb/3.4/rate-limit.html>`_
- `Hot Backup <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server-for-mongodb/3.4/hot-backup.html>`_
- `Log Redaction <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server-for-mongodb/3.4/log-redaction.html>`_

Percona Server for MongoDB requires no changes to MongoDB applications or
code. This release is based on `MongoDB 3.4.19
<https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/3.4/#jan-28-2019>`_.

In this release, |PSMDB| supports the ``ngram`` full-text search engine. Thanks
to Sunguck Lee `(@SunguckLee) <https://github.com/SunguckLee>`__ for this
contribution. To enable the ngram full-text search engine, create an index
passing ngram to the default_language parameter:

.. code-block:: guess
		
   mongo > db.collection.createIndex({name:"text"}, {default_language: "ngram"})

There are the following improvements and bug fixes in this release:

Improvements
================================================================================

- :jirabug:`250`: The ``ngram`` full-text search engine has been added to
  |PSMDB|. Thanks to Sunguck Lee (`@SunguckLee
  <https://github.com/SunguckLee>`__) for this contribution.

Bugs Fixed
================================================================================

- :jirabug:`272`: mongos could crash when running the ``createBackup`` command.

Other bugs fixed: :jirabug:`247`


.. |date| replace:: February 19, 2019
.. |release| replace:: 3.4.19-2.17
