.. _3.6.8-2.0:

================================================================================
|PSMDB| |version|
================================================================================

:Date: October 31, 2018
:Download: http://www.percona.com/downloads/percona-server-mongodb-3.6/
:Installation: :ref:`install`

Percona announces the release of Percona Server for MongoDB |version|
on October 31, 2018. Download the latest version from the `Percona
website <https://www.percona.com/downloads/percona-server-mongodb-3.6/>`_ or the `Percona Software Repositories
<https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server-for-mongodb/3.6/install/index.html>`_.

|PSMDB| is an enhanced, open source, and highly-scalable database that is a
fully-compatible, drop-in replacement for MongoDB 3.6 Community Edition.  It
supports MongoDB 3.6 protocols and drivers.

|PSMDB| extends Community Edition functionality by including the :ref:`inmemory`
storage engine, as well as several enterprise-grade features.  Also, it includes
:ref:`mongorocks` storage engine, which is now deprecated.  |PSMDB| requires no
changes to MongoDB applications or code.

This release introduces data at rest encryption for the WiredTiger storage engine. Data at
rest encryption for WiredTiger in |PSMDB| is compatible with the upstream
implementation. In this release of |PSMDB|, this feature is of **BETA** quality
and should not be used in a production environment.

Note that |PSMDB| 3.6.8-2.0 is based on `MongoDB 3.6.8
<https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/3.6/#sep-19-2018>`_
which is distributed under the GNU AGPLv3 license. Subsequent releases
of |PSMDB| will change its license to `SSPL (Server Side Public
License) <https://www.mongodb.com/community/licensing>`_ when we move
to the SSPL codebase released by |mongodb|. For more information, see
`Percona Statement on MongoDB Community Server License Change
<https://www.percona.com/blog/2018/10/18/percona-statement-on-mongodb-community-server-license-change/>`_.

This release also contains a fix for bug :jirabug:`PSMDB-238`

Known Issues
================================================================================

- :jirabug:`PSMDB-233`: When starting |PSMDB| 3.6 with WiredTiger encryption
  options but using a different storage engine, the server starts normally and
  produces no warnings that these options are ignored.
- :jirabug:`PSMDB-239`: WiredTiger encryption is not disabled with using the
  :ref:`inmemory` storage engine.
- :jirabug:`PSMDB-245`: KeyDB's WiredTiger logs are not properly rotated without
  restarting the server.

.. |version| replace:: 3.6.8-2.0
.. |mongodb| replace:: MongoDB
