.. _3.6.10-3.0:

================================================================================
|PSMDB| |release|
================================================================================

:Date: |date|
:Download: http://www.percona.com/downloads/percona-server-mongodb-3.6/
:Installation: :ref:`install`

Percona announces the release of Percona Server for MongoDB |release|
on |date|. Download the latest version from the `Percona website
<https://www.percona.com/downloads/percona-server-mongodb-3.6/>`_ or
the `Percona Software Repositories
<https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server-for-mongodb/3.6/install/index.html>`_. This
release is :ref:`also available for Ubuntu 18.10 (Cosmic Cuttlefish)
<install>`.

|PSMDB| is an enhanced, open source, and highly-scalable database that is a
fully-compatible, drop-in replacement for MongoDB 3.6 Community Edition.  It
supports MongoDB 3.6 protocols and drivers.

|PSMDB| extends Community Edition functionality by including the :ref:`inmemory`
storage engine, as well as several enterprise-grade features.  Also, it includes
:ref:`mongorocks` storage engine, which is now deprecated.  |PSMDB| requires no
changes to MongoDB applications or code.

In |PSMDB| |release|, data at rest encryption becomes GA. The data at rest
encryption feature now covers the temporary files used for external sorting and
the rollback files. You can decrypt and examine the contents of the rollback
files using the new :program:`perconadecrypt` command line tool.

In this release, |PSMDB| supports the Ngram full text search engine. Thanks to
*@SunguckLee on github* for this contribution. To enable Ngram full
text search, create an index passing **ngram** to the ``default_language``
parameter.

.. code-block:: guess

   mongo > db.collection.createIndex({name:"text"}, {default_language: "ngram"})

New Features
================================================================================

- :jirabug:`PSMDB-276`: :program:`perconadecrypt` tool is now available for
  decrypting the encrypted rollback files.
- :jirabug:`PSMDB-250`: The Ngram full text search engine has been added to
  |PSMDB|. Thanks to *@SunguckLee on github*

Bugs Fixed
================================================================================

- :jirabug:`PSMDB-234`: It was possible use a key file for encryption the owner
  of which was not the owner of the ``mongod`` process.
- :jirabug:`PSMDB-269`: In some cases, hot backup was not using the correct path
  to the ``keydb`` directory designated for data encryption.
- :jirabug:`PSMDB-273`: When using data at rest encryption, temporary files for
  external sorting and rollback files were not encrypted
- :jirabug:`PSMDB-272`: :program:`mongos` could crash when running the the
  :program:`createBackup` command.
- :jirabug:`PSMDB-233`: WiredTiger encryption options were silently ignored at
  server startup, although a storage engine different from WiredTiger was used.
- :jirabug:`PSMDB-257`: MongoDB could not be started with a group-readable ``key
  file`` owned by ``root``.
- :jirabug:`PSMDB-266`: In some cases, it was possible to add arbitrary
  collections to the ``keydb`` directory which may only store encryption data.

Other bugs fixed: 
:jirabug:`PSMDB-239`,
:jirabug:`PSMDB-243`


.. |release| replace:: 3.6.10-3.0
.. |date| replace:: February 6, 2019
