.. _4.0.5-2:

================================================================================
|PSMDB| |release|
================================================================================

:Date: |date|
:Download: `Percona website`_
:Installation: :ref:`install`

Percona announces the GA release of |PSMDB| |release| on |date|. Download the
latest version from the `Percona website`_ or the `Percona software repositories`_.

|PSMDB| is an enhanced, open source, and highly-scalable database that is a
fully-compatible, drop-in replacement for |mongodb-ce|.  It supports |mongodb|
4.0 protocols and drivers.

|PSMDB| extends the functionality of the |mongodb-ce| by including the
:ref:`inmemory` storage engine, :ref:`encrypted WiredTiger storage
engine <psmdb.data-at-rest-encryption>`, :ref:`audit logging
<audit-log>`, :ref:`External LDAP Authentication with SASL
<ext-auth>`, :ref:`hot backups <hot-backup>`, and :ref:`enhanced query
profiling <rate-limit>`. |PSMDB| requires no changes to |mongodb|
applications or code.

This release `includes all features
<https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.0>`_ of |mongodb-ce|
4.0. Most notable among these are:

- `Multi-Document ACID transactions
  <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.0/#multi-document-transactions>`_
- `Type conversion through the new aggregation operators
  <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.0/#new-type-conversion-operators>`_
- `Enhancements to the Change Streams support
  <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.0/#database-and-deployment-change-streams>`_

Note that the `MMAPv1 storage engine is deprecated
<https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.0/#deprecate-mmapv1>`_
in |mongodb-ce| 4.0.

In |PSMDB| |release|, data at rest encryption becomes GA. The data at rest
encryption feature now covers the temporary files used for external sorting and
the rollback files. You can decrypt and examine the contents of the rollback
files using the new :ref:`perconadecrypt command line tool <psmdb.data-at-rest-encryption>`.
 
In this release, |PSMDB| supports the ``ngram`` full-text search
engine. |thanks|. To enable the ngram full-text search engine, create an index
passing ngram to the ``default_language`` parameter:

.. code-block:: javascript

   mongo > db.collection.createIndex({name:"text"}, {default_language: "ngram"})

New Features
================================================================================

- :psmdb-bug:`276`: perconadecrypt tool is now available for decrypting the encrypted rollback files.
- :psmdb-bug:`250`: The Ngram full-text search engine has been added to Percona Server for MongoDB. |thanks|.


Bugs Fixed
================================================================================

- :psmdb-bug:`234`: It was possible to use a key file for encryption the owner
  of which was not the owner of the ``mongod`` process.
- :psmdb-bug:`273`: When using data at rest encryption, temporary files for
  external sorting and rollback files were not encrypted
- :psmdb-bug:`257`: MongoDB could not be started with a group-readable key file
  owned by root.
- :psmdb-bug:`272`: ``mongos`` could crash when running the ``createBackup``
  command.

Other bugs fixed: :psmdb-bug:`247`

.. |release| replace:: 4.0.5-2
.. |date| replace:: February 18, 2019
.. |mongodb-ce| replace:: MongoDB 4.0 Community Edition
.. |mongodb| replace:: MongoDB
.. |thanks| replace:: Thanks to Sunguck Lee `(@SunguckLee) <https://github.com/SunguckLee>`__ for this contribution

.. include:: ../.res/url.txt
.. include:: ../.res/replace.program.txt

