.. _4.2.1-1:

================================================================================
|psmdb| |release|
================================================================================

We are pleased to announce the launch of |psmdb| |release| on |date|. 

|psmdb| |release| includes all of the new features of the latest version of
|mongodb-ce|, as well as providing our users with Enterprise-level `enhancements
<https://www.percona.com/software/mongo-database/feature-comparison>`_ for
free.

Download the latest version from the `Percona website`_ or the `Percona software
repositories`_.

|psmdb| is an enhanced, source available, and highly-scalable database that acts as a
fully-compatible, drop-in replacement for |mongodb-ce|. It supports |mongodb|
4.2 protocols and drivers.

|psmdb| extends the functionality of the |mongodb-ce| by including the
:ref:`inmemory` storage engine, :ref:`encrypted WiredTiger storage engine
<psmdb.data-at-rest-encryption>`, :ref:`audit logging <audit-log>`,
:ref:`external LDAP Authentication <ext-auth>`, :ref:`hot backups <hot-backup>`,
and :ref:`enhanced query profiling <rate-limit>`. |psmdb| requires no changes to
|mongodb| applications or code.

|psmdb| |release| includes all of the features of |mongodb-ce|. The most notable
among these are:

- `Distributed transactions
  <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.2/#distributed-transactions>`_
  (or Multi-Document Transactions) to enable transactions on sharded clusters
  and replica sets removing the transaction total size limit.
- `Wildcard indexes
  <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/index-wildcard/index.html>`_ to have
  indexes span sets of unknown or arbitrary fields.

|mongodb-ce| `removes the MMAPv1 storage engine along with MMAPv1 specific
configuration options, parameters and commands
<https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.2/#removed-mmapv1-storage-engine>`_. It
also `removes a number of commands and methods not related to MMAPv1
<https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.2/#removed-commands-and-methods>`_.

|psmdb| |release| is based on `MongoDB 4.2.1
<https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.2/#oct-18-2019>`_.

For further information on the application of these new features, you can also
visit our recent blogs which dig into the pros and cons of each in detail:

- `Percona’s View on MongoDB’s 4.2 Release – The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly…
  <https://www.percona.com/blog/2019/06/21/view-on-mongodb-4-2-release-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly/>`_
- `Diving into the MongoDB 4.2 Release Small Print
  <https://www.percona.com/blog/2019/06/25/diving-into-the-mongodb-4-2-release-small-print/>`_
- `The Long-Awaited MongoDB 4.2 GA Has Landed
  <https://www.percona.com/blog/2019/08/16/long-awaited-mongodb-4-2-ga-has-landed/>`_

-----

This release enables streaming hot backups to `Amazon S3
<https://aws.amazon.com/s3/>`_ or a compatible storage such as `MinIO
<https://min.io/>`_. Note that this feature has the *Experimental* status and is
not recommended to be used in a production environment.

For more information about this feature, see the :ref:`hot-backup` section in
our documentation.

New Features
================================================================================

- :psmdb-bug:`371`: Hot backup streaming to a remote destination (Experimental).

.. |release| replace:: 4.2.1-1
.. |date| replace:: November 13, 2019

.. include:: ../.res/url.txt
.. include:: ../.res/replace.txt
.. include:: ../.res/replace.program.txt
