.. _4.2.0-1:

================================================================================
|psmdb| |release|
================================================================================

We are pleased to announce the launch of |psmdb| |release| on |date|. Our
engineers have been hard at work to bring this to you less than a month after
the launch of |mongodb-ce| 4.2.

|psmdb| |release| includes all of the new features of the latest version of
|mongodb-ce|, as well as providing our users with Enterprise-level `enhancements
< https://www.percona.com/software/mongo-database/feature-comparison>`_ for
free.

Download the latest version from the `Percona website`_ or the `Percona software
repositories`_.

|psmdb| is an enhanced, open source, and highly-scalable database that acts as a
fully-compatible, drop-in replacement for |mongodb-ce|. It supports |mongodb|
4.2 protocols and drivers.

|psmdb| extends the functionality of the |mongodb-ce| by including the
:ref:`inmemory` storage engine, :ref:`encrypted WiredTiger storage engine
<psmdb.data-at-rest-encryption>`, :ref:`audit logging <audit-log>`,
:ref:`external LDAP Authentication <ext-auth>`, :ref:`hot backups <hot-backup>`,
and :ref:`enhanced query profiling <rate-limit>`. |psmdb| requires no changes to
|mongodb| applications or code.

|psmdb| |release| includes all of the features of |mongodb-ce|. The most notable
among these are:

- `Distributed transactions
  <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.2/#distributed-transactions>`_
  (or Multi-Document Transactions) to enable transactions on sharded clusters
  and replica sets removing the transaction total size limit.
- `Wildcard indexes
  <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/index-wildcard/index.html>`_ to have
  indexes span sets of unknown or arbitrary fields.

Improving its security, |mongodb-ce| resolves the following CVEs: `CVE-2019-2389
<https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-40563>`_ and `CVE-2019-2386
<https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-38984>`_.

|mongodb-ce| `removes the MMAPv1 storage engine along with MMAPv1 specific
configuration options, parameters and commands
<https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.2/#removed-mmapv1-storage-engine>`_. It
also `removes a number of commands and methods not related to MMAPv1
<https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.2/#removed-commands-and-methods>`_.

|psmdb| |release| is based on `MongoDB 4.2.0
<https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.2>`_.

There are a number of benefits in downloading the latest version of our
software, including the impressive new features referenced above, which make it
easier to run and manage your MongoDB database and help to keep your data safe.

For further information on the application of these new features, you can also
visit our recent blogs which dig into the pros and cons of each in detail:

- `Percona’s View on MongoDB’s 4.2 Release – The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly…
  <https://www.percona.com/blog/2019/06/21/view-on-mongodb-4-2-release-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly/>`_
- `Diving into the MongoDB 4.2 Release Small Print
  <https://www.percona.com/blog/2019/06/25/diving-into-the-mongodb-4-2-release-small-print/>`_
- `The Long-Awaited MongoDB 4.2 GA Has Landed
  <https://www.percona.com/blog/2019/08/16/long-awaited-mongodb-4-2-ga-has-landed/>`_

We believe that |mongodb-ce| is a great improvement on previous versions, with
some long-awaited enhancements, including features which were previously only
available in the Enterprise version.

|psmdb| is a free and open source drop-in for |mongodb-ce| and includes all of
the new features of 4.2, and more! This makes it an attractive proposition for
businesses looking to have a robust database software solution in place and make
the most of their IT budget.

Download `our product flyer
https://learn.percona.com/hubfs/Datasheet/Percona_Server_For_MongoDB/Datasheet_Percona_Server_for_MongoDB.pdf`_
for more information on |percona|’s commitment to |mongodb|.

Please `contact us <https://www.percona.com/about-percona/contact>`_ if you
would like any assistance with your |mongodb| database setup, or if you would
like to discuss any of the 4.2 features in more detail.

.. |release| replace:: 4.2.0-1
.. |date| replace:: September 9, 2019

.. include:: ../.res/url.txt
.. include:: ../.res/replace.txt
.. include:: ../.res/replace.program.txt
