.. _PSMDB-4.2.19-19:

================================================================================
*Percona Server for MongoDB* 4.2.19-19
================================================================================

:Date: March 29, 2022
:Installation: `Installing Percona Server for MongoDB <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server-for-mongodb/4.2/install/index.html>`_

Percona Server for MongoDB 4.2.19-19 is an enhanced, source-available, and highly-scalable database that is a
fully-compatible, drop-in replacement for MongoDB 4.2.19 Community Edition.
It supports MongoDB 4.2.19-19 protocols and drivers.

Release Highlights
==================

|PSMDB| now supports :ref:`Keys Management Interoperability Protocol (KMIP) <kmip>` so that users can store encryption keys in their favorite KMIP-compatible key manager to set up encryption at rest. This is a tech preview feature. 

The list of bug fixes introduced by MongoDB and included in |PSMDB| is the following:

* `SERVER-62065 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-62065>`_ - Added the ``repairShardedCollectionChunksHistory`` command to restore history fields for some chunks. This aims to fix broken snapshot reads and distributed transactions.
* `SERVER-60685 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-60685>`_ - Fixed an issue with transaction coordinator crashing if the transaction is aborted when attempting to commit a transaction.
* `SERVER-60682 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-60682>`_ - Fixed the issue with the distributed transactions being in the prolonged prepared state that was caused by the  blocking of acquiring the WiredTiger write tickets by the transaction coordinator.
* `SERVER-40691 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-40691>`_ - Fixed an issue with an empty array for the ``$nin`` statement.
  
 Find the full list of changes in the `MongoDB 4.2.19 Community Edition release notes <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.2/#4.2.19---mar-7--2022>`_

New Features
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`PSMDB-971`: Added support for :abbr:`KMIP (Keys Management Interoperability Protocol)` encryption. Now users can store encryption keys in their favorite KMIP-compatible key manager to set up encryption at rest. 



Bugs Fixed
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`PSMDB-957`: Fixed server crash caused by LDAP misconfiguration. Now the server logs an error message and exits.
* :jirabug:`PSMDB-950`: Fix LDAP authentication using ``mongo`` CLI failure for |PSMDB| installed from tarball


.. include:: ../.res/replace.txt