.. _PSMDB-4.4.12-12:

================================================================================
*Percona Server for MongoDB* 4.4.12-12
================================================================================

:Date: February 7, 2022
:Installation: `Installing Percona Server for MongoDB <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server-for-mongodb/4.4/install/index.html>`_

Percona Server for MongoDB 4.4.12-12 is an enhanced, source-available and highly-scalable database that is a
fully-compatible, drop-in replacement for MongoDB Community Edition.
It is based on MongoDB 4.4.11 and 4.4.12 and supports MongoDB 4.4.11 - 4.4.12 protocols and drivers.

.. warning::

   Inconsistent data is observed after the upgrade from MongoDB 4.4.3 and 4.4.4 to versions 4.4.8+ and 5.0.2+.
   This issue is fixed upstream in versions 4.4.11 and 5.0.6. |PSMDB| also includes the fix in versions 4.4.12-12 and 5.0.6-5

   See the upgrade recommendations below:
   
   - Clusters on versions 4.4.0 and 4.4.1 are safe to upgrade to 4.4.8+ or 5.0.2+ but should upgrade to recommended versions 4.4.11+ or 5.0.5+
   - Clusters on versions 4.4.2, 4.4.3, or 4.4.4 should **downgrade** to 4.4.1 and then upgrade to versions  4.4.11+ or 5.0.5+. 
   - Clusters running versions 4.4.5 - 4.4.7 can and should upgrade to versions 4.4.11+ or 5.0.5+. 
   
   Note that clusters running versions 4.4.2 - 4.4.8 are affected by the bug `WT-7995 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/WT-7995>`_. See `WT-7995 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/WT-7995>`_ for specific explanation and instructions on running the `validate <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/validate/>`_ command to check for data inconsistencies. These data inconsistencies can lead to data loss if not identified and repaired at this point between versions 4.4.8 and 4.4.9.

   If the `validate <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/validate/>`_  command output reports any failures, resync the impacted node from an unaffected node.   **The validate command must be run against all collections in the database. This process can be resource intensive and can negatively impact performance.**


Release Highlights
===================

The bug fixes and improvements, provided by MongoDB and included in Percona Server for MongoDB, are the following:

* `WT-8395 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/WT-8395>`_ - Fixed an issue with inconsistent data observed during the direct upgrade from from 4.4.3 and 4.4.4 to 4.4.8+ and 5.0.2+. Data inconsistency was caused by the incorrect checkpoint metadata to sometimes be recorded by MongoDB versions 4.4.3 and 4.4.4. WiredTiger used this metadata during node startup that could lead to data corruption and could cause the DuplicateKey error. The fix requires the upgrade to versions 4.4.11+ or 5.0.5+.
* `SERVER-61930 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-61930>`_ - Defined a timeout for a health check process and throw an error when the process fails to complete within a timeout. This prevents health check to hang.
* `SERVER-61637 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-61637>`_ - Changed the ``rangeDeleterBatchSize`` value to unlimited to avoid the balancer starvation during batched deletes.
* `SERVER-59362 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-59362>`_ - Added the ability to transition through the valid states of the fault manager, and the interface to observer and log its state transitions.
* `SERVER-62147 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-62147>`_ - Fixed broken OP_QUERY exhaust cursor implementation
* `SERVER-62065 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-62065>`_ - Added the ``repairShardedCollectionChunksHistory`` command to restore ``history`` fields for some chunks. This aims to fix broken snapshot reads and distributed transactions.

Find the full list of changes in the `MongoDB 4.4.11 Community Edition <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.4/#4.4.11---dec-30--2021>`_ and `MongoDB 4.4.12 Community Edition release notes <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.4/#4.4.12---jan-21--2022>`_

Bugs Fixed
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`PSMDB-756`: Fixed an issue with unmet dependencies for installing MongoDB on Debian (Thanks to Stefan Schlesi for reporting this issue)
* :jirabug:`PSMDB-950`: Fixed LDAP authentication using mongo CLI for |PSMDB| installed from a tarball.

