.. _PSMDB-5.0.6-5:

================================================================================
*Percona Server for MongoDB* 5.0.6-5
================================================================================

:Date: February 10, 2022
:Installation: `Installing Percona Server for MongoDB <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server-for-mongodb/5.0/install/index.html>`_

Percona Server for MongoDB 5.0.6-5 is an enhanced, open source, and highly-scalable database that is a
fully-compatible, drop-in replacement for MongoDB 5.0.6 Community Edition.
It supports MongoDB 5.0.6 protocols and drivers.

.. warning::

   Inconsistent data is observed after the upgrade from MongoDB 4.4.3 and 4.4.4 to versions 4.4.8+ and 5.0.2+.
   This issue is fixed upstream in versions 4.4.11 and 5.0.6. |PSMDB| also includes the fix in versions 4.4.12-12 and 5.0.6-5

   See the upgrade recommendations below:
   
   - Clusters on versions 4.4.0 and 4.4.1 are safe to upgrade to 4.4.8+ or 5.0.2+ but should upgrade to recommended versions 4.4.10+ or 5.0.4+.
   - Clusters on versions 4.4.2, 4.4.3, or 4.4.4 should downgrade to 4.4.1 and then upgrade to versions 4.4.10+ or 5.0.4+. 
   - Clusters running versions 4.4.5 - 4.4.7 can and should upgrade to versions 4.4.10+ or 5.0.4+. 
   
   Note that clusters running versions 4.4.2 - 4.4.8 are affected by the bug `WT-7995 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/WT-7995>`_. See `WT-7995 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/WT-7995>`_ for specific explanation and instructions on running the `validate <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/validate/>`_ command to check for data inconsistencies. 

   If the `validate <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/validate/>`_  command output reports any failures, resync the impacted node from an unaffected node.   **Can be resource intensive and can negatively impact performance.**

Release Highlights
==================

* `WT-8395 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/WT-8395>`_ - Fixed an issue with inconsistent data observed during the direct upgrade from from 4.4.3 and 4.4.4 to 4.4.8+ and 5.0.2+. Data inconsistency was caused by the incorrect checkpoint metadata to sometimes be recorded by MongoDB versions 4.4.3 and 4.4.4. WiredTiger used this metadata during node startup that could lead to data corruption and could cause the DuplicateKey error. The fix requires the upgrade to versions 4.4.10+ or 5.0.4+.
* `SERVER-62245 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-62245>`_ - Fixed an issue unavailability of a shard in sharded clusters. Affects MongoDB versions 5.0.0 - 5.0.5. Requires the following steps:

   - Restarting the shards as replica sets 
   - Checking that range deletion tasks are consistent with migration coordinators 
   - Majority-deleting all migration coordinators with a definitive decision
   - Restarting the nodes as shards.
    
* `SERVER-61194 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-61194>`_ - Fixed time-series bucket OID collisions by adding the difference between the actual timestamp and the rounded timestamp to the instance portion of the OID.
* `SERVER-62147 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-62147>`_ - Fixed broken OP_QUERY exhaust cursor implementation.
* `WT-8534 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/WT-8534>`_ - Allowed retrieving checkpoint snapshot for backup restore recovery.


Bugs Fixed
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`PSMDB-950`: Fixed LDAP authentication using mongo CLI for |PSMDB| installed from a tarball.


